# Mail and Shipping

If your products or services are digital, shipping can happily be ignored. However there are many stores that are still selling physical goods that must be moved across or between countries. While this cannot be done entirely anonymously, there are steps that can be taken to increase privacy.

## Packaging
Conventional business practices would recommend that you make your packaging part of the experience. You know when you see a package at your door whether or not it came from Amazon. They've even turned it into it's own form of advertising, which is great when you don't care if people know what it is. However that's not our goal here. If you're going for privacy, keep it low key. Boring, simple boxes and tape. Nothing to draw attention to yourself or your customer. The reality is that most postal providers don't xray every package; they don't have the time or manpower to do that. However, making flashy, easily recognized packages makes investigating or otherwise harassing your packages much easier, should the desire to do so arise. When you send a package, if possible, weigh your package and purchase labels/stamps online so that you are not putting a face to a company or drawing attention to yourself in person. It is adviseable to Receiving mailboxes are discussed below and these addresses may be used for return addresses depending on your security model.

## Non-residential mail boxes
While many things can be paid for in Bitcoin without the need for information collateral. Unfortunately, providers of mail boxes take on a certain risk when they allow you to use their service and property. They will likely still require a certain amount of information collateral in the event that something illegal is being sent to or from their facility or one of their mailboxes suddenly explodes. Despite this, you will likely need to give some sort of address out to your suppliers if nothing else. And since you cannot control what happens to that information once you give it away, you should not give out an address that you physicaly live at. **Bonus: For the extra paranoid, register your po box at a post office that isn't near your house and drop your packages in a different mailbox location. Mix it up. This is probably not necessary, but the only trade off is incovenience so decide for yourself.**

Below are considerations for various companies and countries as they have been discovered by contributors:

**United States**
- [USPS](#usps)

### USPS
While USPS has many issues, they are usually the cheapest option. However there are plenty of third party processors out there that will let you order labels, stamps, etc right from your Wordpress instance and then just drop the product in the mail. As of this writing, however none accept Bitcoin. If you know of one, please make an issue or PR. At least in the U.S. you will be required to have a government ID to open a PO Box. However once it has been created, you can add additional people who are authorized to pick up mail from your box. Here's the great thing, you can add a pseudonym like "john smith" as an authorized person and then simply give out "John Smith at PO Box 123" as the address for all of your business needs. You don't need to list your business' name or yours. In my experience though, if you don't add this authorized person, any mail to John Smith will get kicked back to the sender. When you send your packages, you'll have to decide whether or not you want to make use of tracking. If you're shipping the same thing with a low monetary value and consistent weight, you could just slap the right number of stamps on it and drop it in a mail box (again, assuming USPS). If you have a higher value item though, you'll probably want tracking on it. At least your customers will. If you choose tracking, you'll have to either physically go in to the post office, or pick a shipping service as mentioned above that lets you buy paid labels. If purchasing labels online, buy prepaid giftcards (like Visa cards) for cash at a local store and then use those to purchase the postage labels. 

## Customer education
Lastly when considering shipping, part of this should be educating your customers that *they* should be using privacy practices as well. Since you got paid in bitcoin you don't need their personal info. All you need is an address to send it to. So you should teach your customers to give you a pseudonym for the order and a PO Box to ship to. Same thing for them, they'll want to list that pseudonym with the post office so the package doesn't bounce back to you. For more information on how to help your customers, see [Customer Education](customer-education.md).